Successfully communicating with others in American Sign Language (ASL) starts with learning to sign the manual alphabet, numbers 1 through 10, important expressions, and important one-word questions. And because good communication also involves manners, learning some basic do’s and don’ts of Deaf etiquette is also helpful.
Signing the manual alphabet
Learning the manual alphabet in ASL will help you when you don’t know a sign as you begin communicating. If you don’t know the sign for something, you need to use the manual alphabet to spell the word, or fingerspell. Check out and practice the manual alphabet:
Note: If you need to fingerspell a word that has two letters that are the same, make a small bounce between the letters or simply slide the repeated letter over slightly.
Signing numbers 1 through 10
In ASL, knowing how to sign the cardinal (counting) numbers helps you in everyday situations like banking and making appointments. (The video below shows you how to sign numbers beyond one through ten.)
Pay attention to the way your palm faces when you sign numbers. For 1 through 5, your palm should face yourself. For 6 though 9, your palm should face out toward the person who’s reading the sign.
Signing essential expressions
Practice signing these basic expressions in ASL to meet and greet people, join in on conversations, answer questions, and be polite and courteous.
One-word questions in American Sign Language
Signing one-word questions in ASL is a way to initiate small talk, get to know people, and gather information. When you sign these one-word questions, look inquisitive; the facial expression will come naturally when you are genuinely interested. Also, tilt your head and lean forward a little as you sign the question.
Deaf etiquette dos and don’ts
As you become more confident in your ability to communicate through ASL and begin to meet Deaf acquaintances and form friendships, keep some simple etiquette dos and don’ts in mind.

Dos:

To get a Deaf person’s attention, tap them on the shoulder or flick the light switch.

Let a Deaf person know that you can hear and that you’re learning ASL.

If you’re at a Deaf social function, allow the Deaf friend you came with to introduce you to others.

Introduce yourself using your first and last name.

Converse about sports, the weather, politics, pop culture, or whatever else you’d discuss with your hearing friends.

Don’ts:

Don’t barge into a Deaf person’s house because you think they can’t hear the doorbell.

Avoid ordering for a Deaf person in a restaurant, unless they ask you to do so.

Never try to correct a Deaf person’s signing or lecture them that they don’t sign the way your instructor does.

Don’t initiate a conversation about a Deaf person’s hearing loss. Asking such questions implies that you think of the person as broken or inferior

The average person with no knowledge of ASL letters should start with the letters of the alphabet sign language. If you’re a beginner, here are some tips to help you succeed with fingerspelling: 

All letters are produced one-handed, using your dominant hand.
Hold your dominant hand steady at about shoulder height, in front of the chest. Relax your arm and keep your elbow down, close to your side.
Never fingerspell in front of your face. Your listener should be able to see both your face and your hand.
Avoid bouncing when fingerspelling. The letters should flow continuously, rather than appear letter by letter.
When fingerspelling, your dominant hand moves away from the body.
Use the correct handshape, not approximations or variations. For example, the letter below is i. The first illustration is the correct handshape for the letter i. Notice the second illustration is an incorrect handshape due to the slight lean in the hand and the misplaced thumb.
Learn The ASL alphabet.
Your first and last name.
Briefly pause between your first and last name. 
Vowels: A, E, I, O, U. 
Your family and friends’ names. 
Your hometown. 
Common letter combinations (e.g., -sh, -ch, -th, -ck) 
. Greetings 
Greetings are crucial in any language, including sign language. Knowing how to say hello, goodbye, thank you, and other greetings will help you start and end conversations. It’s essential to master these words and signs so that you can make a positive first impression when meeting deaf or hard-of-hearing individuals.
3. Basic Questions 
Asking questions is an essential part of communication. In sign language, you can ask questions through facial expressions, tone of voice, and non-manual markers. Be sure to learn basic questions such as “What is your name?”, “How are you?”, and “Where do you live?”

4. Family and Friends 
Knowing how to sign words for family members and friends is crucial in building relationships. Be sure to learn how to sign mother, father, brother, sister, and other family members. You can also learn words for friends, like best friend, buddy, and pal.

5. Colors 
Colors are visual and are often used in conversations. Learning the signs for colors can help you identify objects, describe something, or express a preference. Basic colors to learn include red, blue, green, yellow, and black.

To expand your ASL vocabulary even more, watch Dr. Bill run through 100 sign language words for beginners:

